this is presto Walker four circles of
equal size are inscribed in a square
inside of the four circles is a smaller
square tangent to each of the four
circles if the large square has a side
length equal to four what is the area of
the small square can you figure it out
give this problem a try and when you're
ready keep watching the video for the
solution the first thing we'll do is
we'll consider the Centers of each
circle now we'll solve for the radius of
a single circle if we extend the radius
across two adjacent circles will see
that it spans the side of the large
square the large square side is equal to
four times the length of the radius of a
single circle and this is equal to four
so we can solve that each circle has a
radius R equals one
now let's form a triangle between the
Centers of three circles this will be an
isosceles right triangle where each leg
is equal to two the hypotenuse of this
accessories right triangle will be two
times the square root of two you can
solve for this by the Pythagorean
theorem but we can also solve for the
length of the hypotenuse by considering
the distances involved we have one
radius length then we have the length of
the small square which will denote by X
and then we have another radius length
so we now have two different ways to
measure the hypotenuse on the one hand
it's equal to two square root of two and
on the other hand it's equal to two plus
X or X is the small score sideline we
can therefore solve that X is equal to 2
square root of two minus two this means
the area of the small square is the
square of X which equals 12 minus 8
square root of two and that's
approximately 0.68 six did you figure it
out thanks for watching this video
please subscribe to our Channel I make
videos on math you can catch me on my
blog mind your decisions that you can
follow on Facebook Google+ and patreon
you can catch me on social media a
prayer shawl walker if you liked this
video please check out my books there
are links in the video description